>> Spencer Schneidenbach: How
do you make ASP.NET Core?
Use your APIs, it's very simple,
first things first,
we're gonna go here, and
we're gonna go to Program.
I'm gonna go, close this,
and you're gonna say,
inside your builder.Services,
AddControllers.
So, this is the thing that actually
will add controllers to the dependency
injection pipeline,
without it controllers won't work.
But that's good, because it means you're
being explicit about it, and you may
not want to include stuff that you're
not using, so we add controllers, boom.
And then down here,
at the bottom of our thing,
we would say MapControllers,
there we go, boom.
And that will put your
controller in the middleware,
such that it will actually look for
a controller that has that matching Route,
and then it will attempt
to handle that method.
So, brief overview of controllers,
in the next section,
we will actually add
them to our employee API.
All right, so we are going to go ahead and
rip out all of the minimal APIs, and
we're gonna convert them
all to controllers.
And the cool thing is that a lot of this
behavior, we've got them backed by tests.
So, in a real life scenario, if you had
to do this, you could just run the tests.
And assuming your tests were complete
enough and were really substantial enough,
then you can have a lot of confidence
that your refactor worked,
which is what we've gained.
We've gained a fair amount of
confidence because our tests are pretty
comprehensive.
So, first things first, I always typically
create a BaseController, so if you took my
last course, you'll have heard me say that
I'm not a big believer in inheritance.
I usually go no more than one or two
levels deep, controllers are one of those
things that I almost exclusively will
create a base method for right away.
Then typically, I do that because,
depending on the nature of the project,
I will often have additional behaviors, or
even custom IActionResults
that I might wanna return.
And I`ll typically use a BaseController
to do that, so I always define my own.
Creating your own base controller
class has one other advantage,
which is that we can go ahead and
slap on all of these things that we need.
And don't have to reapply them to
subsequent controllers that we create,
so I'm gonna go ahead and put this here.
I'm gonna create a new file,
I'm gonna call it a Class file, and
it's gonna ask me the name, and
I'm just gonna call it BaseController.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Put that
using statement at the top, so
that we're nice and organized, one thing,
there's a small typo, I'm gonna go ahead
and delete this API, cuz we don't need it.
A lot of times when you're building
an API project, sometimes, depending on
the nature of the project, you might put
your APIs behind a particular Route piece.
You might say /API/customers, or
/API/employees, in this case, we're
just keeping it all in the base to just
keep it simple, so take that out, boom.
The cool thing is that any controller
that inherits from BaseController, so
if we add ten or 100, as long as they
all inherit from BaseController.
We'll get all of the goodies that come
with this APIController marker being on
our controller.
And then, of course,
we've defined a Route for each of them,
where we just say (controller).
So, we say that any EmployeeController
that we create will be Employee,
or Employees in this case.
Employees will have a Route of /Employees,
and
then Customers would have a Route
of /Customers, and so on,
anybody that inherits from this
base class will have that.
We'll go ahead and then create our
EmployeesController inside of our
Employees directory, now,
I deviate from Microsoft on this.
If you look at most codebases, including
most codebases in the wild, you'll
see that lots of times the organization
unit seems to be by the thing itself, but
not by the business thing that it solves.
So, a controller is often created,
all the controllers are created
in a Controllers directory.
I prefer to have what is referred
to as a screaming architecture, or
basically, I like an architecture
that screams what it is, right?
So, I like to put my controllers in
with the business thing that they're
actually solving.
In this case,
I'm gonna add my EmployeesController
to the Employees directory.
It makes no difference as long as
they're inside of the project,
as they'll be discoverable
by ASP.NET Core.
It really doesn't matter what directory
you have them in, the directory and
namespace itself does not matter.
The only thing that matters is that
you inherit from BaseController, and
that it's part of your assembly,
and that it's publicly accessible.
I believe private classes or
controllers are not read by ASP.NET Core.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I'm
gonna say what I always say,
which is that,
just do what you feel comfortable with.
It's one of those opinionated things
that really doesn't make a difference.
I just encourage you to have consistency
with yourself and your team.
So, we're gonna go ahead,
and I'm gonna copy and
paste these things in one at a time,
to kinda talk through each of them.
First of all, of course,
we've gotta import our stuff, so
we're gonna import our abstractions,
our IRepository abstraction.
And then, of course,
we've got our Validator, so
we're going to import that as well.
You're gonna see, first things first,
that as opposed to just having them inside
of the controller methods themselves
that actually handle the requests.
We're gonna go ahead and
drop these into the constructor
of the EmployeesController.
We're gonna drop them in, and then we're
just gonna set them to values behind
the scenes, we're just gonna set them to
fields that are private and readonly.
So, these will be instantiated and sent
in by our dependency injection pipeline.
And then, we've got the blueprint for
each of our methods, so
I'm just gonna copy these in.
Of course, we're gonna get compiler errors
because these things, first of all,
we need a few imports, so we'll do that.
These are under the MVC namespace,
and then you can see that the compiler
is rightfully complaining to say,
not all code paths return a value.
They want these functions to be filled in,
which we'll do here in a moment.
So, you'll see here that this is meant to,
if I put this side by side
with our Program, I'm gonna go ahead and
split right, and then close this.
And you're gonna see,
if we put these side by side,
we are in the EmployeesController.
And because we inherited
from BaseController,
we know that the Employees part of this
word will be converted to our Route,
that's due to the Route attribute here.
You'll see as well that we have
our Get request mapped here,
that matches this one,
which is our GetAll request,
this request, our GetById,
matches this right here.
And I`ll create an Update down here,
mapped to our Post,
because we marked it as an HttpPost,
with our CreateEmployeeRequest, and
then our Update right here,
as we would expect.
Now that we have the rough
structure of our controllers,
we can copy/paste the logic of our
endpoints, pretty much almost one-to-one,
so I'm gonna go ahead and
do that one at a time.
I'll copy this or close that,
and I will start with
simply the regular GetAll,
I'll paste that in.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So,
I'm gonna call this repository.GetAll,
we say that our IResult,
which is from our Results class here,
does not match our return
type of IActionResult.
So, what we are going to do is
take off the Results entirely, and
we're just gonna say Ok, now,
where does this Ok method come from?
The Ok method comes from actually the
ControllerBase object, which we'll go and
navigate to, close that real quick.
And you can see that this
is the ControllerBase,
has a lot of additional functionality.
Well, it is the base class
that you must inherit from in
order to have a controller.
And you can see that our Ok method
simply returns an OkObjectResult.
So it's exactly the same
functionally as calling Results.Ok,
it's just the controller
way of doing things.
Similarly, for our GetEmployee single,
we have our repository right here,
our call to the repository, we GetById.
And similar to Result.NotFound,
we just say NotFound,
which is also a method
on our ControllerBase.
And then GetEmployeeResponse goes
back into the Ok method, and
that gets returned and sent back to
the client, as one would expect.
And lastly, a couple of other things,
our Post and
our Put, we'll go ahead and
clear these out.
And you can see that they are functionally
equivalent to our Post and
our Put before,
we've got a squiggly line here.
Go ahead and
name this GetEmployeeById, and
what we've returned here is
something called CreatedAtAction.
Which will send back a location header
in our response headers to say,
here's how you can access that
resource now that you've created it.
We have our call to repository.Create,
we're still taking in our
CreateEmployeeRequest here, and we are
still using our createValidate method or
createValidator.Validate method here.
And then finally, of course,
our UpdateEmployee is much of the same,
return NotFound here,
taking the Body of the Request here,
return Ok here, and, yeah,
the Route parameter here.
So, very similar to minimal APIs, and way
more common to see, any questions so far?
>> Student: I think the answer,
this person's asking about the Employee
controller, yes, you'd need to
create the Employees controller.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Yes, and you
do that by, in the Employees folder, or
even in the Route of the API if you
prefer, or in a Controllers folder,
I just put mine in Employee.
Right click, new file, like that, or
you can click this new file icon right
here inside of Visual Studio Code.
You can create an API Controller,
it's just a class,
it'll just define a class for
you that has some default stuff.
It might differ slightly from the Syntax
that we're using, but that's how you
create that controller, and then you can
copy and paste in from the documentation.
So, now that we've created our controller,
we have now two sets of Routes that handle
the exact same Route, and ASP.NET Core
won't like that, it will throw an error.
So, we will go ahead and delete our
endpoints from our Program.cs, and
all of the development that we do from now
on will be in controllers, so, go here.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Kill those,
and then we can run our tests, but
of course we need to have
our app.MapControllers here,
make sure that those
controllers get picked up.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay,
this is looking pretty good,
we need our call to
builder.Services.AddControllers.
And if you don't have that,
this is the error that you'll get,
we'll just show that real quick.
Which is that our endpoint builder
here will say, unable to find,
it throws on this line of code,
MapControllers.
It says, unable to find the required
services, please add all the required
services by calling AddControllers, so
it tells you how to solve for that.
Then you can see inside of
the MapControllers method,
that it does check for the presence
of those ControllerServices, and
that's where it throws that exception.
Little bit of behind the scenes for
you, the MapControllers, so
we will go ahead and
uncomment this, and add it like so.
We will run our tests and
everything is gonna work just fine,
everything's gonna be hunky dory, right?
Nope, we got a failed test,
what the heck is going on?
Item not found in collection,
it's failing on our Create,
that's because problem details,
the way that we're returning our
bad requests to our caller
is slightly different.
And because we've converted
from minimal APIs, and we wanna
preserve the behavior for controllers,
we'll go ahead and fix that problem.
Now, what we can do is go here
to our EmployeeController,
and I wanna point out a little bit
of the signature on BadRequest.
So if you say return BadRequest, it will
happily take in nothing, just blank.
It will happily take in something
called ModelStateDictionary,
which I'll go over in a sec, or
it can just take in any object.
So, in this case, because the BadRequest
method differs slightly from
results.BadRequest, it expects
a different object of a different shape.
We have to change our validationResults
extension method to go ahead and handle
that case, and the way that I do that
is just to return ModelStateDictionary.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and copy this here,
I'm gonna put this into
our extension methods.
I will keep this one here, even though I
think the instruction stated, delete it,
which is what I would do cuz I always,
one of my favorite things is deleting
code that's not being used anymore.
And then I'm going to import
our ModelStateDictionary,
this ValidationResult.
Yes, I believe that
ValidationResults needs to be,
yeah, capital, that's our type.
And so in, let's see, ValidationResult,
this is not the correct ValidationResult,
that is the one given by data annotations.
You know what,
we are gonna throw this one away,
keep our imports from getting messed up.
So, this validationResult that we want is
going to be in FluentValidation.Results,
we want that namespace, and
then we get our errors.
Then we get the validationResult in the
shape that we expect to convert it to this
ModelStateDictionary, which
we will go ahead and do.
I will delete this line, and I will say
validationResults.ToModelStateDictionary.
And that is just basically an object
that contains what's called model state.
You'll see it a lot more, especially,
you'll see it in a lot of APIs out in
the wild, including MVC with views,
which we will not cover in this course.
But model state is simply an object
that kinda wraps up to say,
this field is valid,
this field is invalid, and so on.
A couple of other refactors that I could,
and I will do, first things first,
I am not a fan of putting our
Validator inside of our constructor,
of our EmployeeController.
Imagine then, if we had a Validator for,
going to stop this,
IValidator<UpdateEmployeeRequest>, which
we will create one in a future lesson.
Imagine if we had like 20 endpoints,
do we really want to inject 20 Validators?
No, it's a lot of boilerplate that I
don't want to have to maintain, and
I certainly don't want to have to write,
and I certainly don't wanna look at it.
So, on our BaseController, we can
implement a method that we could commonly
use across all of our other controllers,
which is exactly what we're gonna do.
We're gonna define a generic method called
ValidateAsync, and we're gonna give it
the instance of an object, and then we're
gonna capture that type T right here.
And the reason that we're
gonna capture that type T,
is that we wanna be able to specify it
down here inside of our IValidator.
We wanna get that IValidator here from
our dependency injection pipeline.
And then if we don't find one,
because we're validating an object that
doesn't have one, we're gonna go ahead and
throw an exception simply because
we don't wanna just fail silently.
We may accidentally try to validate
an object we don't need to validate.
We can create a new ValidationContext,
which is built into IValidator,
and then we can pass it to
our ValidateAsync method.
I believe you can also skip
the ValidationContext directly and just
validate the instance, and I believe under
the hood it creates a ValidationContext.
So, let's go ahead and make sure that we
got our imports here, ValidationResult.
Make sure that you're importing
the right ValidationResult,
if you import the wrong one,
you will get a compiler error.
So we will, because we have
ValidationResult as a class in multiple
namespaces, we wanna make sure
that we do import the correct one.
So, we'll put that there, which is good,
and now we can go and delete some code,
which is, again,
one of my favorite things to do.
So, we're gonna delete createValidator
here, we're gonna delete it from here.
And we're gonna scroll down,
and instead of doing that,
we're just gonna call our
base method ValidateAsync.
So now, we've taken a little
bit of reusable logic and
put it in our base controller,
because we may want to use this across
multiple controllers, so,
what about this property copying stuff?
I think a lot of people are going
to look at this and say, well, gee,
Spencer, this is a lot of boilerplate, all
you're doing is taking the Request object.
That seems to be like, where's our
Object.assign, like we have in JavaScript?
There are libraries that you can use to
automatically copy these properties over.
I chose not to do this in this course,
just to make sure that the course stays
simple, but I do name one of them,
which is AutoMapper.
AutoMapper is probably
the most famous one and
the most ubiquitous one
in the .NET Core library.
It's actually a project made by
a guy named Jimmy Bogard, and
Automapper has been around for
years and years.
So, you can do that in order to shorten
some of these property assignments,
it would give you your
Object.assign essentially, but
like I said, I'm not doing it for
this course.
But I could, if I wanted to make
a common method, or a factory method,
to create a newEmployee object
from an incoming Request, or
something similar if I wanted to do that.
So, I just wanted to let you know
that that boilerplate reducing stuff
definitely exists.